hey how's it going guys this is Dave -
Dee so last week I did a review of the
2015 Moto G which is Motorola's sub 200
smartphone for this year it's a
fantastic phone I think they're going to
solve tons of them but there are other
options out there at that price range
and the Asus zenfone 2 is one of them
now I've had this phone for two months
they've updated the software a couple
times since some of the earlier reviews
here are my thoughts this is a phone
that's priced at just under $200 for the
base model it comes in your standard
smartphone colors and a red that I have
here in the box it has the phone
pamphlets and a two piece AC adapter
simple stuff the front of the phone is
covered in Gorilla Glass 3 it's
relatively big phone it's still
comfortable to hold in one hand but
using it in one hand might be difficult
if you have smaller hands like I do it
has three capacitive buttons on the
bottom here they don't light up which is
actually a bit of an annoyance but it
does have a reflective print so it's
clearly visible during the day but when
you're using the phone in low-light or
in the dark it's tough to see the
buttons the chin and underneath has a
radial brushed finish kind of like their
Zen book line and it looks okay but
because of the capacitive buttons the
chin of the phone looks bigger than it
actually is so if we go around the sides
the left side is smooth there's no
buttons bottom has a microUSB charging
port and a mic the right side also has
no buttons and the top of the phone has
another mic the power button and a
headphone jack now this power button is
in a pretty unconventional spot for the
first couple weeks of using it I
actually found it difficult to turn the
phone on and off but over time we got
used to it
it is a smaller button and you need to
press it pretty hard to turn it on or
off the back of the device has a plastic
cover that was made to look like a
brushed finish that kind of looks
similar to metal but not really it's
nicer to hold than just smooth plastic
because it has a little bit of texture
to it but the Moto G is still easy to
grip because that rubber
now the unit I was given came in red
it's actually a pretty nice-looking red
if red is your thing but red is not my
thing so I picked up a black cover and a
deep brain scan for it for some better
grip and yeah I think this seats me way
more it is a bigger device than the LG
g4 even though they have the same screen
size of five and a half inches and a
Moto G is obviously smaller with its
5-inch screen but at 170 grams the
zenfone 2 is still really comfortable to
hold and use the backplate comes off
easily when you want to remove it and on
the inside you'll see two SIM slots I
tried the double SIM card thing I mean
it works but I'm just not cool enough to
actually use two SIM cards regularly but
for people who do use this feature it
does work nicely it also has a micro SD
slot I tried a 64 gig card worked
without a problem so if you need lots of
storage this phone has you covered the
speaker down here is pretty small but if
you look at the back cover it kind of
looks like the speaker or possibly
speakers would run along the length of
the back sadly it doesn't it's just one
speaker on the left here and it gets
reasonably loud but because it's on the
back of the phone it projects away from
you making it quieter so here's what
they sound like the volume rocker is on
the back the buttons are clicky and
responsive but it's not as organ amah
to use as the volume rocker on the g4
see the g4 has a distinct bump in the
middle so you know what's up and down
just by feel but the buttons on the
zenfone 2 are narrow and it's pretty
flushed the case so you can't easily
tell if you're pressing up or down
without looking at it
the main camera is a 13 megapixel camera
with a two-tone flash so software
updates greatly improve this camera
since launch it's solid in bright
lighting it can be a little too sharp
and maybe a little too colorful for some
people I mean it really depends on your
personal tastes I prefer my cameras to
shoot a little more dull and natural but
it is a very respectable camera when
there's lots of light video records at
1080p at 30 frames per second I mean
it's like a great-looking video but it's
okay low light photos though aren't as
good now on default settings for both
cameras the zenfone 2 has better
low-light photos
the Moto G I found that kind of
interesting but overall camera on the
zenfone 2 is really solid for the price
front-facing camera is 5 megapixels I'm
not a huge front-facing camera kind of
guy but seems to work ok screen is a 5
and a half inch IPS panel 1920 by 1080
so Full HD viewing angles are decent and
the brightness is okay it's on par with
the Moto G so it's still not great in
daylight the resolution is nice and
crispy though it's 400 PPI which is a
big jump over the 294 ppi of the Moto G
and in terms of color using software you
can adjust the color temperature of the
phone and even tweak hue and stuff I
mean it never looks perfectly calibrated
but in general the colors are pretty
good on it it's obviously not the best
five and a half inch screen I've use
when you compare beside the LG g4 yeah
it doesn't look as good but the g4 is
over triple the price of the zenfone 2
so it's a great screen for $200 sadly
it's still running Android lollipop 5.0
Asus is kind of slow pushing out these
Android updates but performance is
really good there's no real lag or
stutter in any of the google apps and
everything just feels snappy asphalt 8
is a demanding game and even though I'm
running the lower spec version of this
phone with just 2 gigabytes of RAM
everything is really fluid and
significantly snappier than the Moto G
hearthstone also runs noticeably better
on this phone animations are smoother
and just the interface is a lot snappier
overall the performance is good like
surprisingly good at this price point
and demanding games aren't a problem at
all
alright a quick blurb on battery life
here when the phone is first launched it
was actually difficult to get a full
day's worth of heavy use off of one
charge and screen on time was about 4
hours sometimes even less now they've
updated two maybe even three times since
launch and battery life was one of the
things that they've heavily improved on
so right now I can easily hit a day and
a half of regular use or like a little
bit more than a day of heavy use and
screen on time is about four and a half
sometimes even five hours if you're
using it lightly so that's a really nice
improvement now the battery life isn't
as good as the 2015 Moto G but it's
still really respectable for charging
the battery the 2 gigabyte version that
I have on
came with a standard charger I had to
get this quick charger from Asus
now this quick charger comes with a four
gigabyte version and terms are charge
times you can get about 60% with about
45 minutes of charge time this is with
the quick charger and to get it fully
charged it's about two hours and with a
standard charger it takes about three
hours to do a full charge Asus puts a
pretty heavy skin on their interface
especially when you compare to the
really light skin that Motorola puts on
the Moto G there's a lot of
pre-installed bloatware you can
uninstall the majority of them but
there's still this lingering issues like
flavor when you're done with it but
there are some things I like so things
like the tap to wake drawing patterns to
launch apps of your choice like the
camera app the screen color adjustment
blue light filters all the different
camera modes and filters and the
downloadable theme packs which totally
reskin the interface there are a ton of
themes to choose from so if
customization is your thing you probably
like this ok recap of the zenfone 2 it
has a 5 and a half inch screen that's
big and sharp but it's not that bright a
5 megapixel front facing camera that
takes 5 megapixel pictures 3 capacitive
buttons that unfortunately don't light
up all covered in Gorilla Glass 3 on the
back we have swappable covers that come
in a bunch of different colors and a
pretty good 13 megapixel camera and
there's also that deceptive speaker
grille inside we have a single speaker
that's reasonably loud but it's facing
the wrong way 16 to 64 gigs of
expandable storage 3000 milliamp hour
battery that will comfortably get you
through day all of this powered by
either a 1.8 gigahertz or a 2.3
gigahertz quad-core processor with 2 or
4 gigs of RAM ok bottom line the zenfone
2 is a really awesome option if you're
looking for a smartphone that has a
really big screen and a powerful
processor in that $200 price range now
everything else about the phone is
pretty good the camera is pretty good
but the thing that really differentiates
itself from the Moto G in terms of
overall value is that bigger screen and
that powerful processor but if those two
things aren't like the most important
features you're looking for on a phone
I would sway you away from the zenfone 2
and more towards the Moto G that's the
end of this review hope you guys liked
it if you did thumbs if you loved it
some subs and I'll be back next week
with my regular stuff notebook reviews
it's been nice and I'll see you guys
next time